# RH_ECE592_106_HW1

## Overview

This repository contains the top policy generated by an LLM for last level cache replacement policy.
Several ablations were tested, with the top result coming from regular iterations over opanai's o4-mini.


## Replicating the Experiment

### Running the replication script 

In order to fully replicate results, run this in the directory:
```shell
./reprouce.sh
```
This shell script does many functions
1. **Install packages**: this will install all needed pip packages used 
   and ensure that all of the correct versions are installed.

2. **Run replacement policy script**: the replacement policy will be ran
   on the ChampSim framework. The results will be printed out to terminal

### Expected package versions

- gcc-15 or clang-19
- CMake 3.27
- Even when using clang, the only standard library supported is libstdc++;
  libc++ may work but it is not a tested platform

### CPU compilation requirements

As explained in the [hardware requirements](https://docs.monad.xyz/monad-arch/hardware-requirements),
a Monad node requires a relatively recent CPU. Execution explicitly
requires this to compile: it needs to emit machine code that is only
supported on recent CPU models, for fast cryptographic operations.

The minimum ISA support corresponds to the [x86-64-v3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86-64#Microarchitecture_levels)
feature level. Consequently, the minimum flag you must pass to the compiler
is `-march=x86-64-v3`, or alternatively `-march=haswell` ("Haswell" was
the codename of the first Intel CPU to support all of these features).

You may also pass any higher architecture level if you wish, although
the compiled binary may not work on older CPUs. The execution docker
files use `-march=haswell` because it tries to maximize the number of
systems the resulting binary can run on. If you are only running locally
(i.e., the binary does not need to run anywhere else) use `-march=native`.

### Compiling the execution code

First, change your working directory to the root directory of the execution
git repository root and then run:

```shell
CC=gcc-15 CXX=g++-15 CFLAGS="-march=haswell" CXXFLAGS="-march=haswell" ASMFLAGS="-march=haswell" \
./scripts/configure.sh && ./scripts/build.sh
```

The above command will do several things:

- Use gcc-15 instead of the system's default compiler

- Emit machine code using Haswell-era CPU extensions

- Run CMake, and generate a [ninja](https://ninja-build.org/) build
  system in the `<path-to-execution-repo>/build` directory with
  the [`CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE.html)
  set to `RelWithDebInfo` by default

- Build the CMake `all` target, which builds everything

The compiler and CPU options are injected via environment variables that
are read by CMake.  If you want debug binaries instead, you can also pass
`CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug` via the environment.

When finished, this will build all of the execution binaries. The main one is
the execution daemon, `build/cmd/monad`. This binary can provide block
execution services for different EVM-compatible blockchains:

- When used as part of a Monad blockchain node, it behaves as the block
  execution service for the Category Labs consensus daemon (for details, see
  [here](docs/overview.md#how-is-execution-used)); when running in this mode,
  Monad EVM extensions (e.g., Monad-style staking) are enabled

- It can also replay the history of other EVM-compatible blockchains, by
  executing their historical blocks as inputs; a common developer workflow
  (and a good full system test) is to replay the history of the original
  Ethereum mainnet and verify that the computed Merkle roots match after
  each block

You can also run the full test suite in parallel with:

```
CTEST_PARALLEL_LEVEL=$(nproc) ctest
```

## A tour of execution

To understand how the source code is organized, you should start by reading
the execution [developer overview](docs/overview.md), which explains how
execution and consensus fit together, and where in the source tree you can
find different pieces of functionality.
